# backend_lambdas_sam

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that handles finanace app's backend api

- lambdas - Python Lambda Code for the application.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- tests - Unit tests for the application code.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources. This file contains important definition of several parts of the application.

The AWS Toolkit is an open source plug-in for popular IDEs that uses the SAM CLI to build and deploy serverless applications on AWS. The AWS Toolkit also adds a simplified step-through debugging experience for Lambda function code. See the following links to get started.

## Deploy the application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build --use-container
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts:

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment.

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build --use-container` command.

```bash
backend_lambdas_sam$ sam build --use-container
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `lambdas/*/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Test a single function by invoking it directly with a test event. An event is a JSON document that represents the input that the function receives from the event source. Test events are included in the `events` folder in this project.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
backend_lambdas_sam$ sam local invoke HelloWorldFunction --event events/event.json
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

**Note**: currently the start-api command doesn't work and it seems to be related to how the lambda layer works.


```bash
backend_lambdas_sam$ sam local start-api
backend_lambdas_sam$ curl http://localhost:3000/
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

```yaml
      Events:
        HelloWorld:
          Type: Api
          Properties:
            Path: /hello
            Method: get
```

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
backend_lambdas_sam$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name backend_lambdas_sam --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the test dependencies and run tests.

```bash
backend_lambdas_sam$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt --user
# unit test
backend_lambdas_sam$ python -m pytest tests/unit -v
# integration test, requiring deploying the test stack first
backend_lambdas_sam$ sam deploy --config-env=test
# Create the env variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME with the name of the stack we are testing
backend_lambdas_sam$ AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME=backendLambdasSamTest python -m pytest tests/integration -v
# Destroy the test stack
backend_lambdas_sam$ sam delete --config-env=test
```

Running the integration tests against the dev stack should fail because it requires a jwt token to retrieve the test user

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name backend_lambdas_sam
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)

### extras

to build and deploy locally, run `sam deploy`

to deploy to prod/main dev, run `sam deploy --config-env=prod`

### Integration tests

(this is WIP for now)
 run `sam sync --config-env=test` to sync the test stack with cloud, then run integration tests

I will need to look into a way to run the api locally at some point

This app is pain in the ass.
